This is the readme file for the Earthworm module ew2seisvole 

The purpose is to integrate Alan Jones'
(http://www.geol.binghamton.edu/faculty/jones) "Seisvole" display
package. The intention is to provide a 'hood ornament'-level display of
recently located events. This is not intended for serious use; do not
take internally.

Seisvole can be configured to look into a specified 'poll directory'
once every 10 seconds. Any files it finds there (regardless of file
names), are presumed to contain cubic messages. It read the files,
inserts the hypocenters into its own catalog, and then deletes the
files.

This module listens for hypoinverse 'sum' messages (produced by the
'eqproc' module, which includes hypoiverse). When it receives a sum
message, it writes a file (with a unique file name derived from time)
into the directory specified int its configuration (.d) file. This
directory should be the same as the "poll directory" which Seisvole is
scanning.

	To set up Seisvole to do all this:

	Download Seisvole from the web site above, or the IRIS site.  This
shows up as a .exe file (yes, this is for Win32 systems only). After
the installation has completed, you'll discover that your "Programs"
menu item - reachable via the "Start" button (lower left on the screen)
- has a new item called "Seismology". Under this item are several
sub-itmes, including "Seismic Eruption" and "Seismic Eruption
Maintenace". "Seismic Eruption" is Seisvole itsself.  
	Execute "Seismic Eruption Maintenance". Pull down the "Alerts" menu.
Select the item "Poll Directory". This is where Seisvole will look for
cubic files. It must match the directory specified in ew2seisvole.  In
summary:  Start - Programs - Seismology - Seismic Eruption Maintenance
- Alerts - Poll directory

Seisvole comes with its own catalog of earthquakes, which it
eagerly displays, given the slightest excuse. However, the intended mode
of operation here is to display only the most 'recent' earthquakes, as
located Earthworm. This can be done by taking Seisvole's normal catalog
away from it, and giving it a new (empty) one. Note that it will
happily start adding any incoming events into this new catalog.  
	To do this, execute Seisvole. Bring up a specific region of the world.
Pull down the "Earthquakes" menu. Select the "Earthquake file" itme.
Note that this item is not active until a region has bee selected.
Under "File name" will be the name and directory of the currently used
catalog file. Create a new catalog file in the same directory (such as
Jan99.hy3) by using the file manager, or command line window. Enter
that file name in Seisvole's "file" window.
	Seisvole can be configured to cycle through a specfied time period.
This is set from Seisvole's "Control" menu, "Set Dates" item, "Days to
loop" window.

AB for LV 2/14/99
