From withers@ceri.memphis.edu Thu Jun  8 15:35:58 2000
Date: Wed, 3 May 2000 12:34:24 -0500 (CDT)
From: Mitchell M. Withers <withers@ceri.memphis.edu>
To: cnss-list@nmt.edu
Subject: CUS ANSS


Initial Planning for Implementation of the Advanced National Seismic
System in the Central U.S.

For those who don't read manuals: meeting on 5/31/00 (see last paragraph).

As you may already know, the Advanced National Seismic System is an
initiative to organize, modernize, and standardize operation of
seismic networks in the United States.  It is a cross-disciplinary
effort designed to meet the needs of the Nation, while maintaining
local interests and expertise.  A meeting of the interim national
oversight committee was held in Albuquerque on February 29, 2000
and a management structure was proposed.  Details can be found
at http://pasadena.wr.usgs.gov.

One conclusion of the interim national committee was the need
for no more the six or seven regions and that these regions
should self-organize.  Regions are formed by local interested
parties developing an implementation plan and submitting this
to the national committee.  When this plan meets the goals and
standards of the ANSS the region is established.  It is essential
that a broad community has access to any regional plan and
that there be suitable mechanisms for comment.

To this end, several parties with interest in the Central U.S.
met on April 18, 2000.  This meeting had minimal lead time
and participants were selected for convenience and association
with specific disciplines.  The meeting summary is available
at http://www.ceri.memphis.edu/CUSSN.  This url is temporary
until we find a more permanent home. It is hoped that as many
people and organizations will provide feedback as possible. Particularly
in the central U.S. participation must include a wide and
diverse group.  However, for practical and fiscal reasons,
it is desirable to keep the core group as small and representative
as possible.  An interim regional subcommittee has been formed and
will meet in conjunction with EERI at the Saint Louis Adams Mark
Hotel at 1PM on May 31, 2000 (see the CUSSN url for details).  This
meeting will be open to any interested parties.

Mitch Withers
Center for Earthquake Research and Information (CERI)
University of Memphis                Ph: 901-678-4940
Memphis, TN 38152                   Fax: 901-678-4734


